Community Standards

Introduction
Every day, people use Facebook, Instagram, Messenger and Threads to share their experiences, connect with friends and family, and build communities. Our services enable billions of people to freely express themselves across countries and cultures and in dozens of languages.

Meta recognises how important it is for Facebook, Instagram, Messenger and Threads to be places where people feel empowered to communicate, and we take our role seriously in keeping abuse off the service. That's why we developed standards for what is and isn't allowed on these services.

These standards are based on feedback from people and the advice of experts in fields such as technology, public safety and human rights. To ensure that everyone's voice is valued, we take great care to create standards that include different views and beliefs, especially from people and communities that might otherwise be overlooked or marginalised.

Our commitment to voice
The goal of our Community Standards is to create a place for expression and give people a voice. Meta wants people to be able to talk openly about the issues that matter to them, whether through written comments, photos, music or other artistic mediums, even if some may disagree or find them objectionable. In some cases, we allow content – which would otherwise go against our standards – if it's newsworthy and in the public interest. We do this only after weighing the public interest value against the risk of harm, and we look to international human rights standards to make these judgments. In other cases, we may remove content that uses ambiguous or implicit language when additional context allows us to reasonably understand that the content goes against our standards.

Our commitment to expression is paramount, but we recognise that the Internet creates new and increased opportunities for abuse. For these reasons, when we limit expression, we do it in service of one or more of the following values:

*AUTHENTICITY
We want to make sure that the content people see is authentic. We believe that authenticity creates a better environment for sharing, and that's why we don't want people using our services to misrepresent who they are or what they're doing.

*SAFETY
We're committed to making Facebook, Instagram, Messenger and Threads safe places. We remove content that could contribute to a risk of harm to the physical security of persons. Content that threatens people has the potential to intimidate, exclude or silence others and isn't allowed on our services.

*PRIVACY
We're committed to protecting personal privacy and information. Privacy gives people the freedom to be themselves, choose how and when to share on our services and connect more easily.

*DIGNITY
We believe that all people are equal in dignity and rights. We expect that people will respect the dignity of others and not harass or degrade others.


